# Decision-Tree-Regression-in-R
The Decision Tree Regression Model in R is used to predict the salary of a person based on his/her level. The dataset has 1 independent variable and 1 dependent variable, hence the visualization is in 2D. 
Decision tree builds regression or classification models in the form of a tree structure. It breaks down a dataset into smaller and smaller subsets while at the same time an associated decision tree is incrementally developed. The final result is a tree with decision nodes and leaf nodes. A decision node (e.g., Outlook) has two or more branches (e.g., Sunny, Overcast and Rainy), each representing values for the attribute tested. Leaf node (e.g., Hours Played) represents a decision on the numerical target. The topmost decision node in a tree which corresponds to the best predictor called root node. Decision trees can handle both categorical and numerical data. 
The core algorithm for building decision trees called ID3 by J. R. Quinlan which employs a top-down, greedy search through the space of possible branches with no backtracking. The ID3 algorithm can be used to construct a decision tree for regression by replacing Information Gain with Standard Deviation Reduction.
A decision tree is built top-down from a root node and involves partitioning the data into subsets that contain instances with similar values (homogenous). We use standard deviation to calculate the homogeneity of a numerical sample. If the numerical sample is completely homogeneous its standard deviation is zero.
